SOURCE: https://thapar.edu/academics/centerspages/facilities3
TITLE: Academics at TIET | World-Class Engineering Programs
------------------------------------------------------------

Facilities
Internet Access
CITM offers internet access and network services to Thapar Technology Campus.
CITM has two static leased line connections: 3Gbps from BSNL and 1000 Mbps from National Knowledge Network (NKN).
The Campus-wide Local Area Network (WLAN/LAN), which currently has 6000 live nodes (wired and wireless), is backboned by Optical Fiber connected with layer-3 and layer-2 switches, structured cabling of CAT 5 and CAT6.
Internet access is available in all CITM labs
E-Governance
The centre is contributing in the implementation of ERP software that includes modules financial management, inventory management, human resource management, store/purchase, academic activities and its related support to the users of Thapar Institute of Engineering & Technology.
Firewall and Security
CITM has implemented and maintained the University level firewall and admission/access control for internet access. CITM has implemented and maintained managed end point protection solution for end devices.
Web Services
CITM is also responsible for maintenance and administration of Thapar Institute of Engineering & Technology Website.
Email Services
Provide e-mail service to Faculty/Research Scholars and staff.
Internet Services
Provisioning of internet services to Students/Faculty and staff.
Campus wide LAN/WLAN
CITM manages the campus wide network covering departments/schools/centers, faculty residences, Boys/Girls Hostels, faculty chambers, library and various research labs.
Provisioning of Software Access
CITM provides central access to SPSS 20.0, MATLAB 7, kaspersky antivirus, Microsoft Edvantage Oracle 10g, FTP, ssh and remote desktop services. Hardware/Equipment Maintenance
CITM also provides repair and maintenance of Electronic Instruments/Equipment and, PCs and peripherals used in various Laboratories.
Management of Linux Home Directories and File Management
FTP Services to access Linux home directory
Server IPs are 172.31.4.14, 172.31.4.9
It is a File Transfer Protocol for Linux users. A utility provided to the user to transfer his/ her files on the Intranet (Windows/ Linux) machines. Use any type of windows machine and follow the following Three simple steps Steps:
Open Internet explorer or any other ftp client
Type ftp://172.31.4.14
Enter valid Linux Username & Password that you can obtain from office of Head, CITM.
Map your windows home directory to your machines through file and print service
Server IP 172.31.4.15
It will give access to your home directory residing on our Windows Machine/ Box. Use any type of windows machine and follow the following three simple steps:
Go to run
Type \\172.31.4.15
Enter valid Windows Username & Password that you can obtain from office of Head, CITM.
Application Servers
Remote Access to Linux based Application Servers (AS)
Server IPs : 172.31.4.9 or 172.31.4.14 or 172.31.4.17 (Sun Solaris 10)
These AS will provide all the development tool provided by linux, Sun or other Open Software. Follow the easy three simple steps to connect Linux/Sun box:
Download putty or Xmanager or use any ssh client
Open a connect to any of above mentioned IPs using default ssh port 22.
Enter valid Linux Username & Password that you can obtain from office of Head, CITM.
Remote Access to Windows based Application Servers (AS)
Server IPs : 172.31.4.15
This AS will provide all the development tool which includes MS Visual Studio 6 and 2005, MS SQL Server 2005, Net beans 5, IIS, Oracle 10g, MySql 4.3. Follow the easy three simple steps to connect Linux/Sun box.
Go to run in windows enter a command mstsc or launch Remote Desktop in connection menu.
Open a connect to above mentioned IP.
Enter your valid windows Username & Password that you can obtain from office of Head, CITM.
Database Servers
Access to Oracle 10g Servers (AS)
Server IPs : 172.31.4.16
Users get 100 MB Oracle Database space for storing tables.
Connect to this Oracle database server with the user name and password provided by office of Head, CITM with host string CCDB and default port 1521.
Uses can connect to this server by making an entry to Listener.sql or by using we based client and entering HTTP://172.31.4.16:5560/isqlplus
Access to MSSQL 2005 Database Servers (AS)
Server IPs : 172.31.4.15
Connect to this Oracle database server with the user name and password provided by office of Head, CITM.
Connect to MySql 4.3 Database Servers (AS)
Server IPs : 172.31.4.9
Connect to this Oracle database server with the user name and password provided by office of Head, CITM.
Strengthening of Latest Software through Academia Initiatives
Oracle Academia Initiative (OAI)
Microsoft Edvantage Program