SOURCE: https://thapar.edu/academics/departpages/assignments135
TITLE: Academics at TIET | World-Class Engineering Programs
------------------------------------------------------------

Assignments
Guidelines / Instructions Regarding Submission of Assignments
Purpose of assignments is to test student’s ability of comprehension of the concerned subject / topic given in the study material. Since assignments carry weightage towards the final grade, students must pay full attention in doing this exercise
Following points may be kept in mind while writing assignment.
- Go through the study material / handouts and other related reference on which assignment is based. Make points regarding the answer/solution of the assignment and arrange these points in a sequential/logical order. Then draw up a tentative outline of your answer.
- If you are answering essay type of question; write meaningful introduction and conclusions.
- Make sure that answer should be relevant to the questions and divided into subheadings.
- Reproduction either from study material or related book will earn you poor grade.
Assignments should reach the Department on or before the date given in the above said Assignment Schedule OR as notified on our website from time to time. ASSIGNMENTS RECEIVED AFTER THE LAST DATE ( DUE TO POSTAL DELAY OR OTHERWISE ) WILL NOT BE ENTERTAINED OR EVALUATED UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES. So all the students are advised to ensure the timely submission of all their assignments. While sending assignments, please mention the following particulars on the top of envelope.
ASSIGNMENT ( CE / CS / EE / ME ) - REGISTRATION NO. ? ? ?
Since assignments of all theory courses carries 25% weightage, non-submission / late submission of the same will result in overall poor performance.
There will be no re-evaluation of assignments. If some mistake / error / discrepancy in the assignment is noticed by the student, he / she should inform the same IMMEDIATELY to the Department through email / telephone / speed post / courier.
ONLY HAND WRITTEN ASSIGNMENT WOULD BE ACCEPTED.
A sample copy of top page (Title Page) is given hereinafter. Please get the photocopies of the same & use it with each assignment after filling your particulars.
The students should write assignment of each course separately.
While writing the response of assignments, the students should use A4 size paper (ruled or white). They should also leave 4 cm margin on the left & at least 4 lines space in between each answer.
The students should not copy from the response sheets of other students. If copying is noticed, the assignments of such students will be rejected and disciplinary action can be taken against the students as per rules of the Institute.
NOTE: Up-to-date status regarding receipt of assignments will be available on our website (
http://faculty.thapar.edu/dde
). All the students are advised to check our website and ensure the timely receipt of their assignments in the Department of Distance Education.