SOURCE: https://thapar.edu/academics/cfacultyview/Dr.-Gagandeep-Kaur/MTAx/ZmFjdWx0eTk1
TITLE: Academics at TIET | World-Class Engineering Programs
------------------------------------------------------------

Dr. Gagandeep Kaur
Associate Professor
Designation:
Associate Professor
Specialization:
Instrumentation
Email:
gagandeep@thapar.edu
Dr. Gagandeep Kaur
is currently Associate Professor in the Electrical and Instrumentation Engineering Department, Thapar Institute of Engineering & Technology, Patiala. Dr. Gagandeep Kaur obtained his Ph.D. in 2012. Dr. Gagandeep Kaur has about Ninteen years of teaching. Her current area of research interest includes Artificial Intelligence, Control System and Instrumentation, Solar Energy.
Broad Research Area:
Intelligent Instrumentation & Control, Renewable Energy
Phone/Mobile Number:
0175-2393055
Email ID
:
gagandeep@thapar.edu
Education
Degree
University/Institution
Year
Specialization
B.Tech.
Dr. BR Ambedkar Regional Engineering College, Jalandhar
1997
Instrumentation & Control
M.Tech.
T.I.E.T Patiala
2001
Instrumentation & Control
Ph.D.
Thapar Institute of Engineering & Technology, Patiala
2012
Artificial intelligence
Academic Experience
University/College
Designation
Period
Thapar Institute of Engineering & Technology, Patiala
Assistant Professor
03/09/1997 to Till date-
Current membership in professional organizations
Fellow of Metrology Society of India
Honors and awards
PIS for the year 2011
PIS for the year 2011
PIS for the year 2012
Reviewer of International journal of electronics & electrical engineering
Article in Tribune
Social recognition by societies and NGO
Article in Punjabi magazines
Expert talk in Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited on safety measures in 2004
Expert talk in EPPCSIT National conference on19 August, 2006 at GNDEC Ludhiana
Expert talk in National Conference AIMS-06, Lala Lajpat Rai College of Engineering, Moga
Fateh channel selected educated sikh women for the talk in “Panth diya singnia
Service activities (within and outside of the institution)
Warden girls hostel-E
President of Institution of engineers(student chapter)
President of Adventure club
Vice-President of TUMUN
List of Publications
Sharad Kumar Tiwari and Gagandeep Kaur, “Model Reduction by New Clustering method and Frequency Response Matching,”Journal of Control, Automation and Electrical Systems, Spriger,pp. 1-7, 2016
Sharad Kumar Tiwari and Gagandeep Kaur, “An Improved Method using Factor Division Algorithm for Reducing the Order of Linear Dynamical System” Sadhana - Academy Proceedings in Engineering Science, Springer-pp-1-7, 2016.
Sharad Kumar Tiwari and Gagandeep Kaur, “Model Reduction of LTI Systems using Spectral Projection with Application to Power Systems,” 7th India IEEE-International Conference on Power Electronics, Nov. 2016.
Sharad Kumar Tiwari and Gagandeep Kaur, “Modified Method for Reducing the Order of LTI System using Factor Division Algorithm,” IEEE-International Conference on Computing for Sustainable Global Development pp-2595-1602, March, 2016.
Sharad Kumar Tiwari and Gagandeep Kaur, “Order reduction using improved pole clustering with Pade approximation method for linear system,” International Journal of System Control and Information Processing, Vol. 1,No. 4, pp.1-12, 2015.
Sharad Kumar Tiwari and Gagandeep Kaur, “A Modified Method for Reducing the multi-variable Large Scale Linear Time Invariant System,” International Journal of Sensing, Computing and Control, Vol. 3, No. 2, pp.70-79, December. 2013.