SOURCE: https://thapar.edu/academics/centers/tifac-core-in-agro-industrial-biotechnology
TITLE: Academics at TIET | World-Class Engineering Programs
------------------------------------------------------------

TIFAC- Core In Agro & Industrial BioTechnology
ABOUT US
The Centre of Relevance and Excellence (CORE) in Agro & Industrial Biotechnology atThapar Institute of Engineering and Technology was established as a national level center during the first phase of the MISSION REACH 2020 program envisioned by the former president and distinguished scientist Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam. The program was implemented by TIFAC (Technology, Information, Forecasting and Assessment Council), Department of Science and Technology (DST), Govt. of India and CORE was created at Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology (erstwhile Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology) in the year 2000 based on the research expertise and training impetus.
CORE in Agro and Industrial biotechnology is a meeting place of innovation, industrial development and intellectual human resource development. It emphasizes on the tripartite linkage between academia, industry and the government. CORE in Agro and Industrial Biotechnology synergizes the skills and research expertise across the Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology from different department and schools, predominantly from Department of Biotechnology.
MISSION
Mission Reach program at CORE emphasizes on producing quality professionals in Biotechnology possessing analytical capabilities, synthesizing abilities and managerial skills to compete globally and excel. It is involved in developing dynamic, innovative and flexible educational programs so as to foster interdisciplinary research and multidisciplinary education in life sciences and biotechnology and forge strong academia-industry and government interaction by participation through national and state level mission programs.
OBJECTIVES
The major objectives of CORE are;
Carry out research in relevant research areas of Agro and Industrial Biotechnology.
Achieve excellence in technical education in the biotechnology and allied areas like biochemical engineering, pharmaceutical, chemical, life and environmental sciences.
Offer short term and advanced courses for Industry professionals, entrepreneurs and students, scientific personnel involved in teaching and research programs in the above area.
NEWSLETTER
TIET-CORE jointly with Department of Biotechnology and Science and Technology Entrepreneurs Park (STEP)-TIET brings out a bimonthly electronic news letter BIOTECHNIA
Biotechnia Jan.2014
NEWS & EVENTS
TIFAC-CORE announces Summer Training in Modern Biotechnology from July 09, 2014.
For further information
click here
Download Registration form
Summer
training program by TIFAC CORE.
Download
Registration Form_ Short Term Training June - July 15
Visit Us at