SOURCE: https://tslas.thapar.edu/admissions
TITLE: BA/BBA/BSc Courses Admission Open 2023 | TSLAS
------------------------------------------------------------

TSLAS CAMPUS LIFE
EVENTS
Events
Academics
Dean’s Office
CONTACT US
EDUCATORS FOR HUMANITY
SEARCH
ADMISSION GUIDE
Apply Now
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
Admission to BA/BBA/BSc programs is subject to the fulfilment of the following eligibility criteria:
The candidate has obtained 70% marks in 10+2 or equivalent examination (55% for SC/ST candidates) in aggregate of any five subjects (One of the subjects must be English)
Any 3-year diploma after 10th grade (60% aggregate) with adequate score in English Proficiency Test.
The University may relax entrance requirements for candidates with extraordinary achievements in the areas such as sports, music, dance, painting, social work, software development etc, with passing marks in their 10+2 examination.
CUET and SAT scores will be given due consideration (if available) and Applicants with an SAT score of 1260 or above can directly appear for the Personal Interaction without appearing for the online test.
ADMISSION PROCESS
Candidates will be shortlisted and invited for further assessment irrespective of reservation or quota as per the following:
Step 1- Apply for the Admission
Candidates seeking admission in Thapar School of Liberal Arts and Sciences shall fill up the online application form available on our website
https://apply-tslas.thapar.edu
The candidates are required to fill complete details in the online form and pay the required application fee. Follow the process mentioned hereunder for filling up online application form
Step 1:
Register Yourself-
Thapar School of Liberal Arts and Sciences-
https://apply-tslas.thapar.edu/
Step 2:
Verify your Mobile Number
Step 3:
Fill Application Form Online
Step 4:
Pay Application Fee
Step 5:
Submit Application
Once you have filled the application form and paid the application fee successfully through online mode, you will receive a confirmation by email regarding acceptance of your online application form.
Candidates are not required to send the printout of application form but they must produce it at the time of document checking of original documents during ‘In-person’ counselling or document checking day.
Step 2 – Assessment of Application
The admission committee checks all the application forms for further processing. The Letter of Motivation (following video will help you in writing the letter:
https://youtu.be/y4CsWSQfrk0
) helps the committee to find out about your background and interests that would make you a good candidate for the program.
Step 3 – Online Test
An online test will be conducted to measure the academic readiness of the candidate based on:
General Awareness
Aptitude and Analytical skills
Logical Reasoning
Step 4 – Personal Interview
One-on-one interaction with the admission committee to explore the applicant’s fit, aptitude, and overall ability to undergo the program successfully.
Offers are made to the applicants based on their past academic performance and overall performance in the admissions process including the Letter of Motivation.
How to Apply
Candidates seeking admission in Thapar School of Liberal Arts and Sciences, TIET shall fill up the online application form available on our website
https://apply-tslas.thapar.edu/
The candidates are required to fill complete details in the online form. Follow the process mentioned here for filling up an online application form.
Step 1: Register Yourself Thapar School of Liberal Arts and Sciences
https://apply-tslas.thapar.edu/
Step 2:Verify your Mobile Number
Step 3:Fill Application Form Online
Step 4:Pay Application Fee
Step 4:Submit Application
Once you have filled the application form and paid the application fee successfully through online mode, you will receive a confirmation by email regarding acceptance of your online application form.
If Application Fee is paid online: Candidates are not required to send the printout of application form but they must produce it at the time of document checking of original documents during ‘In-person’ counselling.
Please retain a copy of the printout of your form. This is to be produced for document verification at time of ‘In-person’ counselling along with all other original documents.
scholarships
Scholarship Criteria
Batch 2024
Eligible students will receive scholarship based on one of the two categories listed below:
Table 1:
Scholarships for First year of Undergraduate Studies (based on Class 12 marks)
Criteria for Scholarship
Tuition Fee Scholarship
Criteria to carry forward the scholarship in subsequent years*
98% and above in Class 12
100 % Full Fee Scholarship
Maintain minimum 8.5 CGPA in each Academic year
96% and above in Class 12
80% Tuition Fee Scholarship
Maintain minimum 8.5 CGPA in each Academic year
94% and above in Class 12
40% Tuition Fee Scholarship
Maintain minimum 8.5 CGPA in each Academic year
90% and above in Class 12
20% Tuition Fee Scholarship
Maintain minimum 8.5 CGPA in each Academic year
*Note: Once a student loses the scholarship due to non-maintenance of CGPA, she/he will not be considered for the continuation of scholarship under this category later at any stage of undergraduate studies. They may avail other scholarships as defined in Table 2 and Table 3 below.
Table 2:
Scholarships for Second and Third years of Undergraduate studies
Criteria for Scholarship
Tuition Fee Scholarship
9.5 and above CGPA
50% Tuition Fee Scholarship
9 and above CGPA
30% Tuition Fee Scholarship
Table 3:
Scholarships for Fourth year of Undergraduate studies
Criteria for Scholarship
Tuition Fee Scholarship
Students who have opted for a Four-year program, without any ‘E’ grade in any course during the first three years.
50% Tuition Fee Scholarship
Apply Now
Apply Now
×
Undergraduate Program
Postgraduate Program
Doctoral Program
ADMISSIONS   2026
Brochure