SOURCE: https://www.thapar.edu/misces/pages/erasmus-programme
TITLE: Erasmus+ programme   - Miscellaneous - Home - Thapar Institute of Engineering & Technology
------------------------------------------------------------

Erasmus+ programme
Erasmus + KA1 – International Mobility Program
Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Patiala, has received a financial grant under Erasmus + KA1 – International Mobility Program with Politecnico di Milano, Italy as a partner institute. The financial aid provided by the European Commission under Erasmus + KA1 – International Mobility program will be used to meet the expenditure on the mobility from India to Italy and from Italy to India for faculty (Investigator) and for students/Research Fellow under this project. This grant will be used for the period starting from Oct 2018 to July 2020. The major objective of this collaboration is to Study and develop framework for future wireless communication system.
Erasmus+ is the European Union programme for education, training, youth and sport for 2014-2020. Erasmus+ aims to increase the quality and relevance of qualifications and skills, reflecting the importance of education and training in EU and national policy agendas. It aims to boost people’s personal development and job prospects. Together with an enriched study experience, Erasmus+ also provides exposure to different cultures. In addition to students, Erasmus+ also targets teachers, trainers and others involved in higher education. Erasmus+ supports actions in the fields of mobility (period of study or training abroad), European projects and networks.
At TIET, Patiala, this mobility is managed by the office of Dean of Partnerships & Accreditation and at Politecnico di Milano it is managed by the International Exchange Office. Erasmus students selected for an exchange period at TIET, Patiala are invited to pre-register and to complete the application (online services) within the deadline.
Support is given by our faculty adviser for this project during and after the mobility period.
How to apply
Information about the arrival
Contact Us