SOURCE: https://www.thapar.edu/academics/centerspages/about-the-drc9
TITLE: Academics at TIET | World-Class Engineering Programs
------------------------------------------------------------

About the DRC
Welcome to the Disability Resource Center
The Disability Resource Center (DRC) at the TIETU offers a variety of services for students with documented disabilities, including learning disabilities, deaf/hard of hearing, blind/low vision, mobility limitations, mental health difficulties (depression, anxiety etc.) and other medical disabilities.
We invite and encourage both prospective and enrolled students as well as the staff to learn more about our services by going to TIETU website (http://www.thapar.edu) to make an appointment. Please help us to help yourself.
Getting Started
1). To self-identify as a student with a disability means that you are the person to disclose to the DRC office that you have a disability and that you require services.
2). The decision whether to self-identify or not is a very personal one. Individuals with disabilities are welcome to discuss their concerns with the DRC staff. A decision to self-identify is understood and respected.
3). Identification of needs can help to ensure that arrangements and accommodation can be made before your arrival. The more time the DRC staff has to make these arrangements, the easier the transition to TIETU will be.
Accommodation and Services
The DRC provides accommodation and services tailored to the individual needs of each disabled student. Appropriate services include but are not limited to the following:
• Counseling
• Assistive Technology
• Remote CART
• Classroom Aids/Supporting Staff
• Classroom & Building Access (classes and accommodation at ground floor in addition to availability of lifts)
• Referrals to Campus & Community Services
• Registration Assistance
• Verification of Eligibility, and other Appropriate Services as per Need
Eligibility
Prospective and enrolled students as well as the staff of TIETU are eligible.Student Responsibilities
Qualified students with disabilities are entitled to equal access in all programs. As a student, you are responsible for:
1. Self-identification.
2. Submitting required documentation before requesting accommodation.
3. Any costs associated with obtaining the required documentation for verification of disability.
4. Making reasonable and timely disclosures.
5. Notifying the DRC of any concerns regarding equal access.
Housing
The Institute provides accessible housing accommodation for students with disabilities. Since housing assignments are made on a room-available basis, an early application is essential. Please contact the Dean of Students Affairs (0175-2393013,2393039), for additional information.
Permission for Vehicle
Students with disabilities can request permission for plying of powered vehicle in the Institute area as well a disabled accessible parking permit, from the Administrative Officer office. They will need to bring a photo I.D. and a copy of their Disabled Identification Card. For more information please contact Administrative Officer.
Meet with our team:
1). Dr. Rajeev Mehta (Chairman)
Professor
Department of Chemical Engineering
Contact No: 9815623714
2). Dr. Sanjay Kumar Jain
Associate Professor
Department of Electrical & Instrumentation Engineering
Contact No: 9815612511
3). Dr. Sonam Dullat
Professional Student Counselor
G- Block, Room No 105
Contact No: 8872739998
4). Miss Mansi Singh (student representative) Ph.D Scholar
Contact No. 8198854979
Hours: 9.00 AM to 7 PM (Monday to Friday)
TIETU, Patiala does not discriminate in the admission or service of students and staff on the basis of disability. It is the responsibility of all members of the Institute community to adhere to the philosophy of equal access and opportunity for students with disabilities as defined by UGC and THE PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES (Equal Opportunities, Protection Of Rights And Full Participation) ACT, 1995.